---
title:			Start!
author:			Christopher Murphy
date:			2016-01-01 11:48:00
category: 		Tiny Books
image:			generic-space.png
imagealt:		The Tiny Books Universe [Detail]
layout:			post
---


I’m sorry to admit that after unveiling the Tiny Books web site at [Hybridconf, Dublin][01] in August, 2015 – four long months ago – I’ve made very little progress.

In part this was due to some staffing issues at the Belfast School of Art (where I’m a team member down), but there’s no escaping it, most of the delays were down to my wilful procrastination.

I’ll hold my hands up: This is entirely my fault. I made promises too soon. I didn’t deliver. Lesson learned.

I might fall flat on my face, but there’s no point in procrastinating any more. I’ve promised to share the first fruits of my Tiny Books labour at [Breaking Borders][02], with a book – ready in some form – to share.

I’m aiming to complete [_Start!_][03] by February and I’m literally working around the clock to complete it (on top of my teaching, which is – helpfully – forcing me to focus my mind).

My all-encompassing plans – to create, “a universe that combines content of varying lengths, designed to fit together” – were, with the benefit of hindsight, a little too ambitious. What I really need to deliver is a book. A small win.

I’m scaling back.

As Sugru founder, Jane Ni Dhulchaointigh, puts it: “Start small and make it good.” If there’s a lesson to be learned here, it’s that over-ambitious and grandiose plans are worthless if you never ship. You need to get something finished, laying firm foundations on which you can build.

I’m delighted to announce that Cara – my wife – who is far more organised than me, has taken on the role of Tiny Books Project Manager. With her at the helm – she’s a firm, but fair taskmaster – Tiny Books will (I have no doubt) see the light of day.

I’m a firm believer in sharing the ups and the downs. Consider this short update a mea culpa. Focus on what you can realistically achieve, to promise otherwise is to disappoint your audience.


[01]: http://danrubin.pixieset.com/hybrid-2015/ "Hybridconf, 2015"
[02]: http://breakingborde.rs "Breaking Borders"
[03]: http://tinybooks.github.io/books/ "Start!"